Planning to have 25 to 30 sessions:

Core Java Introduction:
    James gosling he is working in sun microsystems, he developed it and made it visible to community in 1991 version 1.0.
	In 2007 time the java made opensource. We can go and view all the source code of a open source software.
    The java was acquired by Oracle corporation.
the current version of java is JDK16.

Terminolgy:
Java Virtual Machine: The shortcut JVM.
   - Write a program - The program will be written by us.
   - Compile a program - The program we written will be given to java compiler to compile it, once the compilation is done, it generates .class file.
   - Run a program - If we run a program the JVM will take the bytecode or .class file and process it and generates output.

bytecode: When we compile a program a class file will be generated and inside the class file we will have bytecode.

JDK: Java development Kit.
    There will JRE(Java runtime environment), java docs, Java debuggers, JVM.

JRE: Java runtime environment:
   - It will have all tools and softwares to run the program.
   - We can run programs using JRE.
   - JRE cant compile a program.


Features of Java:
-----------------
     - Java is platform independent language.

 Platform dependent:(EX: C, C++)

   runtime environment()
        |
  OS(operating system)

----------------------------------

 Platform Independent: (EX: Java)

   runtime environment
        |
     JVM(Java software)
        |
  OS(operating system)


MultiThreaded:
   thread : a thread is a simple single process.
   MultiThread - Starting multiple process at a time.
   It improves the performance.

Dual core - you can start two threads.
Quad core - you can four threads at time.
oct core - you can have 8 threads at a time.

   - 1000/2 = 500
   - 1000/4 = 250
   - 1000/8 - 125

Object oriented :
   - the oops concepts tells how we design our programs.
   Inheritence
   Abstaraction
   Encapsulation
   polymorphysm.
These things will be covered in further classes.

Simple:
   The memory allocation is done automatically by JVM,
   We dont have features like pointers, operator overloading etc.

Distributed:
    By using remote method invocation and EJB you can create distributed apps in java.

Robust:
   Robust means reliable, It will check for errors as early as possible, i.e during compile time. The other things that makes java
   robust is Garbage collection(GC), Exception Handling, Memory allocation.
